>> James: The shell is, like I said,
a computer program that's use to launch
other computer programs, and
it does this via a text interface.
>> James: So, you type in things like
commands and the commands have arguments.
And then, they can read from
the standard input, the keyboard or
another program, and
it can write to standard output.
>> James: And, the first UNIX shells,
I think the first one was in 1971.
I think it's on the next slide are very
strongly influenced the shells that
we even use today like to the point
where they're fairly recognizable.
And you can even run some programs that
were made on those very early shells,
on a modern shell.
Or you can actually run the C program, and
compile it even today, and it still works.
So you could actually run this old
software, which is pretty fascinating.
>> James: Here's a list of some shells,
and not a complete list, of course,
because anyone can write their own shell.
It's kinda fun.
>> James: But a lot of them are very old,
so the first one was the Thompson shell in
1971, and then there were a bunch more.
Probably the most important one's today
are bash, which we're gonna be learning,
which was in 1987 and it's been maintained
since then by another maintainer.
And also it's important to
know about ash and dash,
because they show up in places
like busy box Linux and
they're also the default shell on
different kinds of like dbm systems.
>> James: So,
>> James: The other
important thing to note is that,
it's not just enough to know POSIX and
to know how the kernel Cisco is working.
Then to know the show works because,
everything on
a Unix system kind of exist in
this ecosystem of other programs.
And one of the really
important ideas is that,
you can build programs by
combining existing programs.
And,
>> James: So, that's why a big part of
this talk is gonna be diving into a lot
of the programs that you're likely
to find on a Unix system, and
how you can plumb them together.
>> James: I think it's also important to
know, like even though this is a very old
operating system that started out in 1969,
it's still extremely common.
And this is important because
it's a proven model that's worked
in a lot of different cases,
like it's on phones,
it's on like my laptop,
it's on any of your laptops.
It's also got a really vast ecosystem
especially of open source software.
And text is also a very powerful interface
for some reasons I will get into.
>> James: Some fun places where
you might not expect Unix to live.
So I could tell you a little story.
One time, when I was living in Fairbanks,
Alaska,
>> James: Going to college there,
I was doing an end map,
which is a port scan,
to figure out what the IP address of the
desktop computer in the living room was,
cuz I didn't wanna go over there and
type something in.
And so, I was searching for
anything running on port 22,
which is the port used for SSH,
which is a kind of secure login.
And, I noticed,
I found the desktop, of course.
And I found my wireless router which
I'd flashed with I think DDWRT which
is a custom firmware that you can flash
some kinds of routers, Wi-Fi routers with.
We were using that to actually mirror
the open Linksys routers that we could get
more reliably because we didn't have
Internet that time at the house.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> James: Anyways, but then later,
we got a DSL modem, and I noticed that
the DSL modem IP address showed up
as listening on port 22,
which was very interesting.
And so, I tried to SSH into it with
the same password used for the web login,
and there I was at,
[LAUGH] at a Unix shell.
And I had all kinds of commands
that I expected to be there.
I managed to figure out how,
just with some Unix commands,
how to copy all of the copy the entire
image of the system out to my computer.
And I was like poking around and didn't
really find anything interesting but
that's just one of the many kinds of
places where you might find a Unix
command line.
I can show you also, so
I've got this other computer right
here that many of you have seen.
I'll just hold it up so
that the livestream can see.
This is a Raspberry Pi that's set up
to be a pneumatic computing device.
So I've got goggles here that I can wear.
And it's running Raspbian, which is
a distribution of Linux based on Debian.
And I can SSH into this computer,
>> James: From my terminal right here.
And here I go, I'm on a Unix system.
I can do things like,
I can see what kind of processor I have.
So I've got, this is a Raspberry Pi 3, so
it's actually got quad-core ARM7
processor, it's pretty good.
And another place where you might
find Unix shell is an Android phone.
So if you've configured an Android
phone to be in developer mode
which you can do I think by clicking the,
if you go into the Settings page,
like About, there's a version number.
If you click it seven times,
you can put your phone in developer mode.
And then, if you have this program
installed called ADB, you can do,
adb shell.
And now, here I go,
I have a shell that's running on my phone.
So I can list files, I can move around,
I can see what's on the SD card.
>> James: I can do all kinds of fun stuff,
which is I think a lot nicer than writing
Java [LAUGH] or using somebody
else's program to fiddle around.
So it's really useful, you can install
software offline if you have the APK file,
using the command line on Android.
A lot of things,
I think are a lot simpler if you wanna
play around with a phone that you've got.
>> James: Also, it's a really important,
>> James: System for
operating things like web servers or
other pieces of Internet infrastructure.
So,
>> James: The command-line is kind of,
it's in a lot of places,
maybe a lot more than you might think.
And the important part is that,
if you know the command-line,
that skill is extremely transferable
to all of those different places.
And a lot of those kinds of hardware
might not even have something like
a graphical display.
So the command-line is the only way that
you can really interface with some of
these systems.
>> James: This is because
it uses a text interface.
So,
>> James: Really nice thing about a text
interface is all that you need to
interact with the system, if you have
a text interface like a shell is some
way of getting data into and out of it.
So that could be a network connection,
it could be a serial port link,
it could be Bluetooth or
maybe a web socket.
All kinds of ways that you
can establish a connection
where a text interface will be useful.
>> James: So I think the other really
important thing about the Unix system and
using the command-line and
knowing the command-line well is this
idea of the Unix philosophy,
which is many kind of related ideas.
It's sort of hard to pin down exactly
what is in a single sentence, but
some a the main ideas are that if you have
programs, they should do one thing well.
They shouldn't like have
a bunch a features,
they should really kind of have a narrow
scope for what their purpose is.
So they're fairly simple, typically.
And that you should be able to combine
these single purpose programs to
build bigger programs by kind of plumbing
them together with things like pipes and
redirects and that sort of stuff.
>> James: So there is a really great
book published by Bell Labs in 1984
called Unix Programming Environment.
I think you can find PDFs on the Internet,
and
it kind of goes through
a lot of this stuff.
Some of the stuff just kind outdated but
a lot of the philosophy and
even a lot of the commands
are still applicable today.